Marty McFly's romp through time makes
back to the future one of the best movie
trilogies of all time so we here at
cinematic ax compiled The Back to the
Future trilogy in one comprehensive
timeline to make everything digestible
will be following Marty's experience to
the story instead of jumping around and
starting chronologically in the 1880s
also we're not covering the Back to the
Future cartoon show or the telltale
videogame but let us know in the
comments if we should dive into that
expanded universe and make sure to
subscribe to cinematic I ready I've got
to get back in time October 25th 1985
Marty McFly's adventure begins when he
pays a visit to dr. Emmett Brown house
that's filled with alarm clocks and Rube
Goldberg esque
breakfast making machines eat your heart
out pee-wee Herman doc isn't home but
that doesn't stop Marty from trying his
gnarly oversized amplifier the arguably
mad scientists soon calls Marty and
asked him to assist in an experiment at
Twin Peaks Mall late that night Marty
agrees then realizes he's late for
school and rushes out the door on his
skateboard
but he's too late mr. Strickland catches
him and calls him a slacker just like
his father after class Marty and his
band audition to play at the school
dance but are just too darn loud
defeated he vents to his girlfriend
Jennifer in the heart of Hill Valley
Courthouse Square site of the infamous
clock tower that was struck by lightning
30 years prior precisely at 10:04 p.m.
on November 12 1955 at home
Marty runs into his father George McFly
and George's supervisor Biff Tannen Biff
totaled the family car which Marty
desperately needed to take Jennifer out
of town that weekend
Biff takes no responsibility and bullies
the sheepish George into paying for the
car damage and cleaning his beer stain
suit at dinner Marty's mom Lorraine
drowns her sorrows and booze reminiscing
on her quote/unquote innocent youth she
had fallen in love with George back in
high school after her father hit him
with his car she felt sorry enough for
him to let him take her to the
enchantment under the sea dance where
they shared their first kiss and fell in
love forever a little pathetic but hey
that's the power of love October 26 the
1985 at around 1:15 a.m. Marty meets Doc
Brown at the mall and sees his newest
invention a time-traveling DeLorean if
you're gonna build a time machine into a
car why not do it with some style it's
all possible thanks to the doctors
ingenious flux capacitor along with 1.1
on gigawatts of electricity powered by
plutonium dangerous stuff so they're
wearing radioactive proof suits the
DeLorean needs to hit 88 miles per hour
for everything to come together so doc
remotely powers the car as his dog
Einstein plays guinea pig and has
launched exactly one minute into the
future wait let's back up a second where
exactly did Doc Brown get the plutonium
well he may Libyan terrorists a fake
bomb but hey what could possibly go
wrong the naturally the Libyan show up
and MODOK down with machine guns
devastated Marty runs for his life using
the DeLorean to escape once Marty ramps
up to 88 miles per hour he's suddenly
whisked past the Libyans straight to
November 5th 1955 the day Doc Brown
inputted because it was the day that he
came up with the flux capacitor November
5th 1955 Marty still traveling at 88
miles per hour finds himself suddenly
warped from a paved mall parking lot to
an abandoned sleepy farm and careens
into a barn
Marty stumbles out of the DeLorean to
greet a bewildered family still wearing
the hazmat suit they figure he's an
alien
so pod tries to blast him with a shotgun
Marty jumps back in the DeLorean and
speeds off taking out one of the
properties to pine trees on the way once
he has the time machine Marty heads to
town to search for Doc Brown so he can
get back to the future he's stopped by
the local diner to find his address at
the phone book while he's sitting at the
counter high-school-aged Biff charges in
and barks at McFly but if isn't talking
to marty marty is actually sitting next
to his very own father
Marty's curious about just how spineless
his father always was so he tails him
for a bit well not only is George a wimp
it turns out he's also a peeping tom
Marty finds him sitting in a tree spying
on Lorraine as she undresses george
slips and falls from the tree into the
path of an oncoming car so Marty dives
in and pushes his father out of the way
getting hit instead when it comes to he
finds himself being in respect to health
with a beautiful young daughter the man
who hit him Marty's own mother and she's
not exactly being coy she took his pants
off while he slept
geez at least this gave Marty an easy
fake name written on his underwear
Calvin Klein Lorraine gets even more
handsy during an awkward dinner with
Marty's extended family including a baby
version of his convict uncle Marty
finally decides to dip and rush over to
Doc Brown to explain the situation the
doc doesn't believe him at first
naturally I mean Ronald Reagan the actor
as president don't be ridiculous
that's like electing a reality TV star
but once Marty tells him about the flux
passenger docks convinced they go pick
up the durian and discreetly transport
it back to Doc's garage
November 6th 1955 without access to
plutonium doc thinks all hope is lost to
generate 1.21 jigowatts for the flux
capacitor they'd need to harness the
power of something like a lightning bolt
fortunately they know exactly when and
where lightning will strike that's
Saturday night at 10:04 p.m. doc can
surely finagle a way to make all that
work in the coming days only one problem
Marty kinda jeopardized his own
existence see George was supposed to get
hit by that car not Marty
that was the clumsy catalyst that led to
them falling in love without this Marty
will never be born
he now has until the enchantment under
the sea dance on the 12th to reignite
the spark between his parents
November 7th 1955 that Monday at school
Marty tries to convince George to ask
Laraine to the dance but he's not very
successful
everyone thinks George is a loser even
mr. Strickland thinks he's nothing but a
slacker plus Biff has the hots for
Lorraine and George can't step on those
massive toes but Lorraine doesn't want
Biff's meat hooks she only has eyes for
Calvin Klein seems like Marty will have
to get a bit creative
November 8th 1955 early in the morning
Marty dances radioactive protective suit
and sneaks into George's room to use his
ultra futuristic Sony Walkman to
scramble George's brain with some van
Halen see George is a big sci-fi guy and
even writes him himself so when Darth
Vader from the planet Vulcan demands
that George take Laraine to the dance
you know he listens the next day George
down some chocolate milk can build the
courage to announce that he is
Lorraine's density
I mean her destiny it's actually going
well but then Biff shows up Marty
sensing trouble trips Biff decks him in
the face and leads him and his cronies
on an extremely exciting chase through
the streets after inventing the
skateboard Marty heroically maneuvers to
safety as Biff crashes his car into a
truck full of manure get used to that
smell Biff it's a really cool scene but
unfortunately way too cool Lorraine's
already attracted to Marty but now she
thinks he's an absolute dream of a man
she follows him to Doc's place and gets
Marty to reluctantly agreed to take her
to the enchantment under the sea dance
but that doesn't mean he's giving up on
George just yet November 9th 1955 the
next day Marty reveals his plan to
George he's gonna get a little too
handsy with Laraine in the
parking lot before the dance after all
his mom always seemed like a prude she'd
never even parked with a boy George
would then come to her rescue and put
Marti in his place
sweeping the rain off her feet of course
that means Marti has to feel up his own
mom but it might be the only thing that
can save his existence
November 12th 1955 on the night of the
dance Marty's plane backfires in the
most uncomfortable way possible Lorraine
is more than ready to park with Marty
smoking a cigarette and downing some
booze before launching herself at him
fortunately she stops herself reeling in
disgust and realizing that kissing Marty
feels like kissing her brother
unfortunately Biff shows up very pissed
off his goons throw Marty in the trunk
of a car as Biff closes in on Lorraine
George shows up to play hero
but he wasn't expecting to see Biff and
yet he doesn't back down
Biff twists George's arm behind his back
then he shoves Lorraine to the ground
that pushes George right over the edge
and he knocks Biff out with a single
extremely satisfying punch the
dance-band freed Marty from the trunk so
he saw the whole thing
but he's still fading from the
photograph George and Lorraine still
need to seal the deal with that kiss the
band guitarist Marvin berry cut his hand
while freeing Marty so our hero ends up
playing guitar in his place when some
random pencil-neck rudely interrupts
George and Lorraine's dance Marty is
nearly wiped from existence but George
has a changed man he cuts back in kisses
Lorraine and Marty springs back to life
then Marty introduces the young 50s
crowd to Johnny be gud which Chuck Berry
apparently plagiarized before scaring
them off with some 80s metal they're not
quite ready for it yet but their kids
are gonna love it
by the time Marty meets doc he is the
clock tower set up for the DeLorean
Marty tries to warn talk about the
Libyan terrorists but doc refuses and
rips of Marty's detail field letter he
doesn't want to mess up the time-space
continuum you see as they're arguing a
fallen tree implies the lighting rake
damn with only seconds to spare doc
climbs the tower and Marty hops in the
DeLorean car won't start and the court
doesn't have the necessary slack damn
damn but it all works out Marty starts
the engine puts the pedal to the metal
and hits 88 miles per hour at the
precise moment doc plugs the rig back in
the Lightning hits the DeLorean and
Marty blasts back to the future at last
October 26 1985 Marty actually set the
clock a few minutes before he first left
in order to warn doc he's too late when
he finally gets to the mall now alone
he sees his friend gets shot to pieces
once again he watches himself travel
back to the past and runs to check on
Doc Brown who somehow still alive yes
universal integrity and scientific
caution is important in all but doc
figured what the hell he taped Marty's
torn letter back together and wore a
bulletproof vest Marty goes home and
passes out but when he wakes up he
realizes everything is different
his parents are now healthy wealthy and
have charming personalities to boot
his dad is a successful sci-fi author
now but the best part Biff is basically
his Lackey scrounging to wax George's
car and everything all seems well as
Marty embraces his girlfriend Jennifer
until Doc Brown warps into the scene
with The Time Machine
he hails from the future he's been
exploring warning Jennifer and Marty
that their kids are in trouble they pile
into a car and take flight because who
needs roads blasting off into the future
and leaving a bewildered Biff as witness
October 21st 2015 in the far-distant
sci-fi future year of 2015 our trio
warps conveniently into the flow of
traffic of an air highway understandably
Jennifer immediately starts freaking out
so Doc Brown sedates her and just kind
of leaves her in an alley doc explains
to Marty that his son Marty jr. will end
up getting roped into a doomed robbery
by bifs grandson Griff to make matters
worse Marty's daughter Marlene will then
attempt to break Marty jr. out of prison
the plan is simple
Marty will pose as his son and refuse to
take part in grifts plan
Marty enjoys some luxuries of 2015 Power
laces self-drying jackets hoverboards
and 18 jaw sequels before heading into
an 80s themed retro diner complete with
Michael Jackson Max Headroom white staff
Marty jr. shows up and Griff confronts
him about the robbery
but Marty successfully pulls the old
switcheroo and stands up to Griff he
says no but Griff calls Marty a chicken
tries to hit him with a bat Marty
successfully evades the bullies as they
crashed into the courthouse causing
insane damages and leading to their
arrest with the future altered doc and
Marty can go back to 1985
but the police find the unconscious
Jennifer and just kind of dump her at
her old ourselves home in Lyon estates
Marty and Doc Rush after her but before
they can intercept Jennifer wakes up and
finds herself spying on her future
family turns out Marty's had a lifetime
of misfortune I mean needles just got
him fired by calling him chicken but it
all stemmed from when Marty crashed into
a Rolls Royce back in the 80s he injured
his hand ruining his music career and
the rolls-royce driver sued him
ruin Jennifer soon runs into future
Jennifer and both faint out of shock
could be worse the whole time-space
continuum could have imploded when dr.
Marty arrived at Lyon estates they leave
the DeLorean unattended to rescue
Jennifer but remember how Biff's are the
DeLorean back in 1985 he's been
suspicious ever since especially after
seeing two Marty juniors in town after
eavesdropping on doc and Marty he
follows the pair and hijacks their
DeLorean in the short minutes it's
unguarded zipping to the past and back
before anyone can notice Marty and Doc
returned to the time machine and head
back to 1985 vowing to destroy the thing
to avoid any further messes October 26th
1985 we're back to the past but things
seem a bit off
not only are there bars on Jennifer's
windows but Marty's house isn't Marty's
house
Marty runs off into the dystopian
hellscape that once resembled his
neighborhood an armed to the teeth mr.
Strickland catches poor Marty on his
property but he's saved by a
conveniently timed drive-by how the hell
is this 1985 so different well Marty
finds out as he stumbles into Courthouse
Square now completely in the shadow of a
massive hotel casino owned by none other
than Biff Tannen according to the Biff
Tannen Museum Biff crew was fortunate
empire through a number of well-placed
sports bids over the past few decades
with his new power he married his
high-school crush Marty's mom Lorraine
Biff Scoones knock Marty out and he
wakes up next to a different version of
Lorraine she's been clearly abused and
forced to get plastic surgery by her new
husband Biff roughs Marty up and forces
Lorraine to submit by threatening to
throw her kids in jail but wait where's
Jorge well he's been dead for over a
decade and Biff killed him Marty rushes
to his father's tombstone and meets doc
who was waiting for him back at the lab
Marty and Doc discuss how this dystopia
came to be doc discovered part of Biff
skne in the DeLorean along with the
receipt for his sports Almanac that
Marty bought in 2015 if must I eject the
DeLorean and give him the Almanac to his
past itself since the new 2015 has
already been Biff eyed they have to go
back to the past and get the Almanac
before young Biff Ken Marty head
straight to the casino to find out just
when Biff first got his meat hooks on it
sure enough if boasts about how an old
man gave it to him on November 12 1955
and made him swear to keep it a secret
but he also warned him that a young man
would one day ask about it well that day
has clearly come so bifs ready with his
handgun but Marty distracts Biff for
like the eighth time in the trilogy
darts to the roof
escapes with doc in the flying DeLorean
now they have to race back to November
12 1955 to fix the past huh again
November 12 1955 it's almost as if it
were the temporal junction point for the
entire space-time continuum on the other
hand could just be an amazing
coincidence November 12 1955 Marty
stocks Biff throughout the day and waits
until he receives the almond but can
intercepts until Future Biff thinks his
mission is accomplished
Marty hops into the back of Biff's newly
maneuver free car as fifties Biff and
Future Biff come face to face in the
front seat
50s Biff pulls into his garage and
Future Biff proves the almanacs power by
accurately predicting the final score of
a UCLA football game on the radio Future
Biff leaves marty is trapped in the
garage until 50s Biff heads off to the
dance that evening keeping the Almanac
close to the fast even at the dance
party just can't find the chance to nab
it things get even trickier when mr.
strickland confiscates the book from
Biff marty slips into Strickland's
office and under his desk waiting for
the perfect moment but strickland simply
dumped the Almanac in the wastebasket
before leaving Marty finally has his
hands on it but it's actually just the
Almanac cover over a girly magazine
panicked Marty needs to track down Biff
and the real Almanac fast thankfully he
knows exactly where I'll be knocked out
in the parking lot by his father
Marty pretends to give Biff CPR in front
of the crowd and lifts the Almanac from
his unconscious body home free right and
wrong this goons chase Marty right into
the gym he evades them but now they're
waiting for the other Marty to get off
stage if the bullies beat him up he'll
never make it to the clock power and a
universe destroying paradox will occur
so this movie's Marty traverses the
stages catwalk and knocks the bullies
out with some sandbags in the nick of
time
now all Marty has to do is meet doc by
the roof
Biff now conscious confronts Marty
outside of the gym all our hero has to
do is walk away but when Biff calls him
chicken his feathers are ruffled Marty
turns to confront Biff gets knocked out
by himself
Biff baffled at the two calvin klein's
notices the Almanac in Marty's
possession and flips his lid he kicks
Marty when he's down and makes off with
the Almanac once more once he comes to
Arnie rushes to doc and they make after
the villain in the DeLorean Marty tries
to sneak up on Biff with this hoverboard
but the bonehead catches on and they
start fighting for the Almanac while in
the tunnel
Marty geniusly uses the walls to
maneuver over the
car and snatch the future telling
sportsbook too bad Biff is all ready to
play chicken with his car
Marty scrambles to the other end of the
tunnel as fast as he can and thankfully
gets a lift from Doc is Biff crashes
into a truck full of manure again once
they're outside of town
Marty burns the Almanac has docked
precariously a harbor is above in the
heavy rainstorm
sure enough the DeLorean gets struck by
lightning and disappears
Marty assumes it was blown into a
million pieces but a western union
representative shows up to deliver a
mysterious letter from 1885
it's from Doc Brown it turns out he's
still alive to save doc marty rushes to
the only person who can help doc but the
Shaka Singh Marty back from the future
again causes poor Emmet to pass out in
the street of Courthouse Square November
13th 1955 the next morning Doc Brown
wakes up unaware that marty dragged him
home the night before Marty shows him
the letter which explains how the bolt
of lightning activated the DeLoreans
flux capacitor launching the good doctor
back to the Wild West
unfortunately this also fried the
capacitor and the necessary parts to fix
it won't be invented until 1947 doc
doesn't mind being trapped back in time
he's gleefully living out his fantasy as
a blacksmith he stowed the DeLorean in
the nearby mine for Marty and Doc to
uncover and repair in 1955 all they need
to do is blow the DeLorean out of the
mine and send Marty back to 1985 for
everything to be solved and phony was
that simple
November 14th 1955 once he blasts the
time machine out Marty discovers the
tombstone of Doc Brown himself the
tombstone reveals doc was shot and
killed by Buford Mad Dog Tannen over a
matter of $80 a mere six days after
writing the letter September 7th 1885 at
least he apparently woulda beloved Clara
before he crouched Marty decides to
travel back to the old West to rescue
doc for he meets this grisly fate
November 16th 1955 with 50s Doc's
blessing and the DeLorean all fixed up
Marty dresses up in western garb and
prepares to warp to the 19th century
marty reaches 88 miles per hour
activating the time machine at a drive
and outside of town which will surely be
empty 70 years earlier September 2nd
1885 well of course Marty warps right
into the path of a group of armed Native
Americans charging on horseback while
being chased by cavalry Marty manages to
drive to safety and hide the DeLorean in
a cave but notices the fuel line was
severed by an arrow a black bear emerges
from the cave and Marty Sprint's away
tripping knock
self out at the property line of the
McFly's yep his own ancestors he awakens
next to his great-great grandma Maggie
McFly who looks exactly like Lorraine
but wait isn't this the dad's side of
the family anyway
Marty states his name is Clint Eastwood
and they share an awkward dinner with
Marty's great great grandfather Seamus
McFly Maggie has her suspicions but
Seamus outfits his descendant with a hat
and agrees to help him find his
blacksmith friend doc September 3rd 1885
Barney heads into town and acquires at
the saloon about the local blacksmith
unfortunately Biff's outlaw ancestor
Buford Mad Dog Tannen shows up and
doesn't like the cut of marbs jib or his
goofy future clothes Mad Dog shoots at
Marty's feet but Marty uses his Billie
Jean Michael Jackson dance moves to
evade and humiliate the outlaw yet
another chase ensues Mad Dog glasses a
noose around Marty's neck drags him
around town and hangs him in front of
the courthouse
luckily Doc Brown shows up and shoots
Barney free with a macgyvered rifle Mad
Dog and Doc verbally spar on the street
over Mad Dogs recently shooed horse his
horse's shoe broke can Mad Dog put the
horse down
so Mad Dog figures doc owes him 80 bucks
even though Mad Dog never paid for the
showing in the first place doc has a
backbone so he refuses to pay Mad Dog
vows to shoot him in the back
Marty shows Doc the photograph of his
own tombstone and dr. grease to get the
hell out of Dodge the only problem is
the DeLorean scuff fuel line sure the
flux capacitor still works
the DeLorean can't hit 88 miles per hour
without fuel September 4th 1885 document
ride to use the saloons ultra-strong
whiskey to power their time machine that
only blows out the fuel injection
manifold they're running out of ideas
when Doc suddenly has a brain blast they
can use a locomotive train in a long
stretch of straight land near town to
physically push the DeLorean to 88 miles
per hour before it reaches Clayton's
ravine well actually it's currently
still shamash ravine the schoolteacher
named Claire Clayton hadn't fallen in it
yet and had the landmark named after her
sure enough as doc and Marty are scoping
the site out Clara comes barreling out
of control towards the ravine doc races
to her wagon to rescue the fair teacher
forever altering history they look into
each other's eyes and immediately fall
in love
September 5th 1885 the plan is set doc
and Marty just need to wait for the next
train to come through town at 8:00 a.m.
on September 7th in the meantime might
as well enjoy the town festivities at
the Hill Valley festival or the
this clock for the tower is being
inaugurated doc is enjoying a dance with
Clara when mad dog shows up to put a
pistol and Doc's back
Strickland's ancestor thought he
confiscated all of Tannen's gangs arms
but he missed this extra discrete one
Mad Dog is about to bury a bullet in
Doc's back but Marty uses a prototype
frisbee to hit Buford's hand just in
time saving Doc's life but before Marty
can bail Mad Dog pulls out Marty's
trigger word Lasorda he calls marty
yella and nobody calls Marty chip yella
so he agrees to duel Buford 8:00 a.m.
Monday morning but that shouldn't be a
problem
Marty he'll be well on his way back to
the future by then unless the train is
late of course September 6 1885 the next
day Marty takes a look at the tombstone
photograph and the name is now blank it
seems like Doc's safe but the gravestone
is still there so one of them could
still be in danger doc consider staying
back in the Old West with Clara and even
taking Clara with them but ultimately he
decides the responsible moves to return
to his proper time without Clara he goes
to her door to explain that he's from
the future but Clara doesn't believe him
and kicks doc to the curb breaking both
of their hearts lost doc heads to the
local saloon and holds a shot of whiskey
as he tells the local patrons of his
woes and of the future
September 7th 1885 Marty wakes up alone
and confused doc is nowhere to be found
he rushes back to the saloon and quickly
convinces doc to get a hold of himself
doc finally takes that shot of whiskey
but unfortunately one shot floor ISM and
now he's drunk on his ass the local
barkeep whips up some disgusting wakeup
juice and successfully revives the doc
but all this commotion wasted far too
much time it's nearly 8:00 a.m. and Mad
Dog is here for Marty's head the future
tombstone photograph now says Clint
Eastwood and that's Marty remember Marty
and Doc tried to slip out the back but
then Doc gets captured marty has to
rescue his friend first he tries piece
surrounding his Colt Peacemaker his side
and offering to settle the affair like
men the mad dog pulls in Indiana Jones
and shoots him anyway
somehow Marty stands up unharmed Mad Dog
tries to punch him but breaks his hand
on the furnace face hidden under Marty's
clothes
Marty's socks the bewildered Buford
breaking the newly carved future
tombstone and knocking him into a
wheelbarrow of manure the tombstone
vanishes from the photo and our pair
rushed to hiya
I mean borrow the train for a science
experiment meanwhile Clara's on a
one-way train to San Francisco but over
here are some men discussing the
completely heartbroken
and they met in the saloon the night
before she realizes that Doc Brown truly
was in love with her and races back to
her love doc and Marty successfully play
Wild Bunch taking the train for their
science experiment and switching the
track in time to meet up with the
DeLorean Marty chills in the DeLorean
well doc overheats the trains furnace
and they're well on their way to 88
miles per hour doc heads to the front of
the train to join Marty
but suddenly Clara jumps aboard the
train via horseback she confesses her
love for sweet Emmett Brown so he slowly
works his way back to grab her but if
they're not in the DeLorean in time the
train will fly off the unfinished tracks
into the ravine Clara and Doc are
running out of time
but Marty tosses them his trusty
hoverboards they can glide to safety
staying in the 19th century as Marty
blasts back to the future for the final
time October 27th 1985 Marty is finally
back in the normal 1985 where he belongs
but the DeLorean stalls and the now
complete train tracks he barely gets
away before a modern train smashes the
DeLorean to bits
at least doc got what he wanted with the
destroyed time machine Marty checks in
on Jennifer she's still passed out on
the porch from the last movie and she
wakes up confused by her crazy dream
before Marty can explain himself on the
way home needles pulls up in his truck
and challenges Marty to a race and call
some chicken Marty is all ready to leave
needles in his dust but makes the mature
decision to bail he's not stupid enough
to race that [ __ ] Marty and Jennifer
watch needle speed ahead narrowly
avoiding a Rolls Royce that Marty surely
would have hit just then you're fired
facts that Jennifer snagged from 2015
fades in her hands and Marty's future
looks bright Jennifer and Marty go back
to the DeLorean debris Laden tracks to
reminisce when a different kind of train
arrives out of nowhere it's the doc from
the past he's turned an old locomotive
into a time machine and has been
exploring the history of time with his
wife Clara and his two sons Jules and
Vern doc gives Marty the commemorative
clock tower photo they took in 1885
before flying into the end credits ready
to embark on countless adventures with
his family and a cartoon spinoff series
Great Scott that was pretty heavy but we
hope we helped make Marty McFly's
adventures through time just a little
bit clearer what time lens would you
like to see us tackle next here at
cinematic ax just let us know in the
comments below and blast to the Future
and see if we listened and if you don't
have a time machine can always subscribe
to cinematic ofor more timelines just
like this one I've been your host Marcus
thanks for watching